Harry's euphoria at finally winning the Quidditch Cup lasted at least a
week. Even the weather seemed to be celebrating; as June approached, the
days became cloudless and sultry, and all anybody felt like doing was
strolling onto the grounds and flopping down on the grass with several
pints of iced pumpkin juice, perhaps playing a casual game of Gobstones
or watching the giant squid propel itself dreamily across the surface of
the lake.

But they couldn't. Exams were nearly upon them, and instead of lazing
around outside, the students were forced to remain inside the castle,
trying to bully their brains into concentrating while enticing wafts of
summer air drifted in through the windows. Even Fred and George Weasley
had been spotted working; they were about to take their O.W.L.s
(Ordinary Wizarding Levels). Percy was getting ready to take his
N.E.W.T.s (Nastily Exhausting Wizarding Tests), the highest
qualification Hogwarts offered. As Percy hoped to enter the Ministry of
Magic, he needed top grades. He was becoming increasingly edgy, and gave
very severe punishments to anybody who disturbed the quiet of the common
room in the evenings. In fact, the only person who seemed more anxious
than Percy was Hermione.

Harry and Ron had given up asking her how she was managing to attend
several classes at once, but they couldn't restrain themselves when they
saw the exam schedule she had drawn up for herself. The first column
read:

Monday

9 o'clock, Arithmancy

9 o'clock, Transfiguration

Lunch

1 o'clock, Charms

1 o'clock, Ancient Runes

"Hermione?" Ron said cautiously, because she was liable to explode when
interrupted these days. "Er -- are you sure you've copied down these
times right?"

"What?" snapped Hermione, picking up the exam schedule and examining it.
"Yes, of course I have."

"Is there any point asking how you're going to sit for two exams at
once?" said Harry.

"No," said Hermione shortly. "Have either of you seen my copy of
Numerology and Gramatica?"

"Oh, yeah, I borrowed it for a bit of bedtime reading," said Ron, but
very quietly. Hermione started shifting heaps of parchment Harry, Ron,
and Hermione plenty of opportunity to speak to Hagrid.

"Beaky's gettin' a bit depressed," Hagrid told them, bending low on the
pretense of checking that Harry's flobberworm was still alive. "Bin
cooped up too long. But still... we'll know day after tomorrow -- one
way or the other --"

They had Potions that afternoon, which was an unqualified disaster. Try
as Harry might, he couldn't get his Confusing Concoction to thicken, and
Snape, standing watch with an air of vindictive pleasure, scribbled
something that looked suspiciously like a zero onto his notes before
moving away.

Then came Astronomy at midnight, up on the tallest tower; History of
Magic on Wednesday morning, in which Harry scribbled everything Florean
Fortescue had ever told him about medieval witch-hunts, while wishing he
could have had one of Fortescue's choco-nut sundaes with him in the
stifling classroom. Wednesday afternoon meant Herbology, in the
greenhouses under a baking-hot sun; then back to the common room once
more, with sunburnt necks, thinking longingly of this time next day,
when it would all be over.

Their second to last exam, on Thursday morning, was Defense Against the
Dark Arts. Professor Lupin had compiled the most unusual exam any of
them had ever taken; a sort of obstacle course outside in the sun, where
they had to wade across a deep paddling pool containing a grindylow,
cross a series of potholes full of Red Caps, squish their way across a
patch of marsh while ignoring misleading directions from a hinkypunk,
then climb into an old trunk and battle with a new boggart.

"Excellent, Harry," Lupin muttered as Harry climbed out of the trunk,
grinning. "Full marks."

Flushed with his success, Harry hung around to watch Ron and Hermione.
Ron did very well until he reached the hinkypunk, which successfully
confused him into sinking waist-high into the quagmire. Hermione did
everything perfectly until she reached the trunk with the boggart in it.
After about a minute inside it, she burst out again, screaming.

"Hermione!" said Lupin, startled. "What's the matter?"

"P -- P -- Professor McGonagall!" Hermione gasped, pointing into the
trunk. "Sh -- she said I'd failed everything!"

It took a little while to calm Hermione down. When at last she had
regained a grip on herself, she, Harry, and Ron went back to the castle.
Ron was still slightly inclined to laugh at Hermione's boggart, but an
argument was averted by the sight that met them on the top of the steps.

Cornelius Fudge, sweating slightly in his pinstriped cloak, was standing
there staring out at the grounds. He started at the sight of Harry.

"Hello there, Harry!" he said. "Just had an exam, I expect? Nearly
finished?"

"Yes," said Harry. Hermione and Ron, not being on speaking terms with
the Minister of Magic, hovered awkwardly in the background.

"Lovely day," said Fudge, casting an eye over the lake.

"Pity... pity..."

He sighed deeply and looked down at Harry.

"I'm here on an unpleasant mission, Harry. The Committee for the
Disposal of Dangerous Creatures required a witness to the execution of a
mad hippogriff. As I needed to visit Hogwarts to check on the Black
situation, I was asked to step in."

"Does that mean the appeal's already happened?" Ron interrupted,
stepping forward.

"No, no, it's scheduled for this afternoon," said Fudge, looking
curiously at Ron.

"Then you might not have to witness an execution at A!" said Eon
stoutly. "The hippogriff might get off!"

Before Fudge could answer, two wizards came through the castle doors
behind him. One was so ancient he appeared to be withering before their
very eyes; the other was tall and strapping, with a thin back mustache.
Harry gathered that they were representatives of the Committee for the
Disposal of Dangerous Creatures, because tie very old wizard squinted
toward Hagrid's cabin and said in a feeble voice, "Dear, dear, I'm
getting too old for this.... Two o'clock, isn't it, Fudge?"

The black-mustached man was fingering something in his belt; Harry
looked and saw that he was running one broad thumb along the blade of a
shining axe. Ron opened his mouth to say something, but Hermione nudged
him hard in the ribs and jerked her head toward the entrance hall.

"Why'd you stop me?" said Ron angrily as they entered the Great Hall for
lunch. "Did you see them? They've even got the axe ready! This isn't
justice!"

"Ron, your dad works for the Ministry, you can't go saying things like
that to his boss!" said Hermione, but she too looked very upset. "As
long as Hagrid keeps his head this time, and argue, hi case properly,
they can't possibly execute Buckbeak...."

But Harry could tell Hermione didn't really believe what she was saying.
All around them, people were talking excitedly as they ate their lunch,
happily anticipating the end of the exams that afternoon, but Harry,
Ron, and Hermione, lost in worry about Hagrid and Buckbeak, didn't join
in.

Harry's and Ron's last exam was Divination; Hermione's, Muggle Studies.
They walked up the marble staircase together; Hermione left them on the
first floor and Harry and Ron proceeded all the way up to the seventh,
where many of their class were sitting on the spiral staircase to
Professor Trelawney's classroom, trying to cram in a bit of last-minute
studying.

"She's seeing us all separately," Neville informed them as they went to
sit down next to him. He had his copy of Unfogging the Future open on
his lap at the pages devoted to crystal gazing. "Have either of you ever
seen anything in a crystal ball?" he asked them unhappily.

"Nope," said Ron in an offhand voice. He kept checking his watch; Harry.
knew that he was counting down the time until Buckbeak's appeal started.

The line of people outside the classroom shortened very slowly. As each
person climbed back down the silver ladder, the rest of the class
hissed, "What did she ask? Was it okay?"

But they all refused to say.

"She says the crystal ball's told her that if I tell you, I'll have a
horrible accident!" squeaked Neville as he clambered back down the
ladder toward Harry and Ron, who had now reached the landing.

"That's convenient," snorted Ron. "You know, I'm starting to think
Hermione was right about her" -- he jabbed his thumb toward the trapdoor
overhead -- "she's a right old fraud."

"Yeah," said Harry, looking at his own watch. It-was now two o'clock.
"Wish she'd hurry up..."

Parvati came back down the ladder glowing with pride.

"She says I've got all the makings of a true Seer," she informed Harry
and Ron. "I saw loads of stuff... Well, good luck!"

She hurried off down the spiral staircase toward Lavender.

"Ronald Weasley," said the familiar, misty voice from over their heads.
Ron grimaced at Harry and climbed the silver ladder out of sight. Harry
was now the only person left to be tested. He settled himself on the
floor with his back against the wall, listening to a fly buzzing in the
sunny window, his mind across the grounds with Hagrid.

Finally, after about twenty minutes, Ron's large feet reappeared on the
ladder.

"How'd it go?" Harry asked him, standing up.

"Rubbish," said Ron. "Couldn't see a thing, so I made some stuff up.
Don't think she was convinced, though...."

"Meet you in the common room," Harry muttered as Professor Trelawney's
voice called, "Harry Potter!"

The tower room was hotter than ever before; the curtains were closed,
the fire was alight, and the usual sickly scent made Harry cough as he
stumbled through the clutter of chairs and table to where Professor
Trelawney sat waiting for him before a large crystal ball.

"Good day, my dear," she said softly. "If you would kindly gaze into the
Orb.... Take your time, now... then tell me what you see within it...."

Harry bent over the crystal ball and stared, stared as hard as he could,
willing it to show him something other than swirling white fog, but
nothing happened.

"Well?" Professor Trelawney prompted delicately. "What do you see?"

The heat was overpowering and his nostrils were stinging with the
perfumed smoke wafting from the fire beside them. He thought of what Ron
had just said, and decided to pretend.

"Er --" said Harry, "a dark shape... um..."

"What does it resemble?" whispered Professor Trelawney. "Think, now..."

Harry cast his mind around and it landed on Buckbeak.

"A hippogriff," he said firmly.

"Indeed!" whispered Professor Trelawney, scribbling keenly on the
parchment perched upon her knees. "My boy, you may well be seeing the
outcome of poor Hagrid's trouble with the Ministry of Magic! Look
closer... Does the hippogriff appear to... have its head?"

"Yes," said Harry firmly.

"Are you sure?" Professor Trelawney urged him. "Are you quite sure,
dear? You don't see it writhing on the ground, perhaps, and a shadowy
figure raising an axe behind it?"

"No!" said Harry, starting to feel slightly sick.

"No blood? No weeping Hagrid?"

"No!" said Harry again, wanting more than ever to leave the room and the
heat. "It looks fine, it's - - flying away..."

Professor Trelawney sighed.

"Well, dear, I think we'll leave it there.... A little disappointing...
but I'm sure you did your best."

Relieved, Harry got up, picked up his bag and turned to go, but then a
loud, harsh voice spoke behind him.

"IT WILL HAPPEN TONIGHT."

Harry wheeled around. Professor Trelawney had gone rigid in her
armchair; her eyes were unfocused and her mouth sagging.

"S -- sorry?" said Harry.

But Professor Trelawney didn't seem to hear him. Her eyes started to
roll. Harry sat there in a panic. She looked as though she was about to
have some sort of seizure. He hesitated, thinking of running to the
hospital wing -- and then Professor Trelawney spoke again, in the same
harsh voice, quite unlike her own:

"THE DARK LORD LIES ALONE AND FRIENDLESS, ABANDONED BY HIS FOLLOWERS.
HIS SERVANT HAS BEEN CHAINED THESE TWELVE YEARS. TONIGHT, BEFORE
MIDNIGHT... THE SERVANT WILL BREAK FREE AND SET OUT TO REJOIN HIS
MASTER. THE DARK LORD WILL RISE AGAIN WITH HIS SERVANTS AID, GREATER AND
MORE TERRIBLE THAN EVER HE WAS. TONIGHT... BEFORE MIDNIGHT... THE
SERVANT... WILL SET OU... TO REJOIN... HIS MASTER....

Professor Trelawney's head fell forward onto her chest. She made a
grunting sort of noise. Harry sat there, staring at her. Then, quite
suddenly, Professor Trelawney's head snapped up again.

"I'm so sorry, dear boy," she said dreamily, "the heat of the day, you
know... I drifted off for a moment...."

Harry sat there, staring at her.

"Is there anything wrong, my dear?"

"You -- you just told me that the -- the Dark Lord's going to rise
again... that his servant's going to go back to him.

Professor Trelawney looked thoroughly startled.

"The Dark Lord? He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named? My dear boy, that's hardly
something to joke about.... Rise again, indeed --"

,'But you just said it! You. said the Dark Lord --"

"I think you must have dozed off too, dear!" said Professor Trelawney.
"I would certainly not presume to predict anything quite as far-fetched
as that!"

Harry climbed back down the ladder and the spiral staircase,
wondering... had he just heard Professor Trelawney make a real
prediction? Or had that been her idea of an impressive end to the test?

Five minutes later he was dashing past the security trolls outside the
entrance to Gryffindor Tower, Professor Trelawney's words still
resounding in his head. People were striding past him in the opposite
direction, laughing and joking, heading for the grounds and a bit of
long-awaited freedom; by the time he had reached the portrait hole and
entered the common room, it was almost deserted. Over in the corner,
however, sat Ron and Hermione.

"Professor Trelawney," Harry panted, "just told me --"

But he stopped abruptly at the sight of their faces.

"Buckbeak lost," said Ron weakly. "Hagrid's just sent this."

Hagrid's note was dry this time, no tears had splattered it, yet his
hand seemed to have shaken so much as he wrote that it was hardly
legible.

Lost appeal. They're going to execute at sunset. Nothing you can do.
Don't come down. I don't want you to see it.

Hagrid

"We've got to go," said Harry at once. "He can't just sit there on his
own, waiting for the executioner!"

"Sunset, though," said Ron, who was staring out the window ill a glazed
sort of way. "We'd never be allowed... 'specially you, Harry...."

Harry sank his head into his hands, thinking.

"If we only had the Invisibility Cloak...."

"Where is it?" said Hermione.

Harry told her about leaving it in the passageway under the one-eyed
witch.

"... if Snape sees me anywhere near there again, I'm in serious
trouble," he finished.

"That's true," said Hermione, getting to her feet. "If he sees you....
How do you open the witch's hump again?"

"You -- you tap it and say, 'Dissendium,'" said Harry. "But --"

Hermione didn't wait for the rest of his sentence; she strode across the
room, pushed open the Fat Lady's portrait and vanished from sight.

"She hasn't gone to get it?" Ron said, staring after her.

She had. Hermione returned a quarter of an hour later with the silvery
cloak folded carefully under her robes.

"Hermione, I don't know what's gotten, into you lately!" said Ron,
astounded. "First you hit Malfoy, then you walk out on Professor
Trelawney --"

Hermione looked rather flattered.

They went down to dinner with everybody else, but did not return to
Gryffindor Tower afterward. Harry had the cloak hidden down tie front of
his robes; he had to keep his arms folded to hide the lump. They skulked
in an empty chamber off the entrance hall, listening, until they were
sure it was deserted. They heard a last pair of people hurrying across
the hall and a door slamming. Hermione poked her head around the door.

"Okay," she whispered, "no one there -- cloak on --"

Walking very close together so that nobody would see them, they crossed
the hall on tiptoe beneath the cloak, then walked down the stone front
steps into the grounds. The sun was already sinking behind the Forbidden
Forest, gilding the top branches of the trees.

They reached Hagrid's cabin and knocked. He was a minute in answering,
and when he did, he looked all around for his visitor, pale-faced and
trembling.

"It's us," Harry hissed. "We're wearing the Invisibility Cloak. Let us
in and we can take it off."

"Yeh shouldn've come!" Hagrid whispered, but he stood back, and they
stepped inside. Hagrid shut the door quickly and Harry pulled off the
cloak.

Hagrid was not crying, nor did he throw himself upon their necks. He
looked like a man who did not know where he was or what to do. This
helplessness was worse to watch than tears.

"Wan' some tea?" he said. His great hands were shaking as he reached for
the kettle.

"Where's Buckbeak, Hagrid?" said Hermione hesitantly.

I -- I took him outside," said Hagrid, spilling milk all over the table
as he filled up the jug. "He's tethered in me pumpkin patch. Thought he
oughta see the trees an' -- an' smell fresh air -- before

Hagrid's hand trembled so violently that the milk jug slipped from his
grasp and shattered all over the floor.

"I'll do it, Hagrid," said Hermione quickly, hurrying over and starting
to clean up the mess.

"There's another one in the cupboard," Hagrid said, sitting down and
wiping his forehead on his sleeve. Harry glanced at Ron, who looked back
hopelessly.

"Isn't there anything anyone can do, Hagrid?" Harry asked fiercely,
sitting down next to him. "Dumbledore --"

"He's tried," said Hagrid. "He's got no power ter overrule the
Committee. He told 'em Buckbeak's all right, but they're scared.... Yeh
know what Lucius Malfoy's like... threatened 'em, I expect... an' the
executioner, Macnair, he's an old pal o' Malfoy's... but it'll be quick
an' clean... an' I'll be beside him.... "

Hagrid swallowed. His eyes were darting all over the cabin as though
looking for some shred of hope or comfort.

"Dumbledore's gonna come down while it -- while it happens. Wrote me
this mornin'. Said he wants ter -- ter be with me. Great man,
Dumbledore...."

Hermione, who had been rummaging in Hagrid's cupboard for another milk
jug, let out a small, quickly stifled sob. She straightened up with the
new jug in her hands, fighting back tears.

"We'll stay with you too, Hagrid," she began, but Hagrid shook his
shaggy head.

"Yeh're ter go back up ter the castle. I told yeh, I don' wan' yeh
watchin'. An' yeh shouldn' be down here anyway... If Fudge an'
Dumbledore catch yeh out without permission, Harry, yeh'll be in big
trouble."

Silent tears were now streaming down Hermione's face, but she hid them
from Hagrid, bustling around making tea. Then, as she picked up the milk
bottle to pour some into the jug, she let out a shriek.

"Ron, I don't believe it -- it's Scabbers!"

Ron gaped at her.

"What are you talking about?"

Hermione carried the milk jug over to the table and turned it upside
down. With a frantic squeak, and much scrambling to get back inside,
Scabbers the rat came sliding out onto the table.

"Scabbers!" said Ron blankly. "Scabbers, what are you doing here?"

He grabbed the struggling rat and held him up to the light. Scabbers
looked dreadful. He was thinner than ever, large tufts of hair had
fallen out leaving wide bald patches, and he writhed in Ron's hands as
though desperate to free himself

"It's okay, Scabbers!" said Ron. "No cats! There's nothing here to hurt
you!"

Hagrid suddenly stood up, his eyes fixed on the window. His normally
ruddy face had gone the color of parchment.

"They're comin'...."

Harry, Ron, and Hermione whipped around. A group of men was walking down
the distant castle steps. In front was Albus Dumbledore, his silver
beard gleaming in the dying sun. Next to him trotted Cornelius Fudge.
Behind them came the feeble old Committee member and the executioner,
Macnair.

"Yeh gotta go," said Hagrid. Every inch of him was trembling. "They
mustn' find yeh here.... Go now..."

Ron stuffed Scabbers into his pocket and Hermione picked up the cloak.
"I'll let yeh out the back way," said Hagrid.

They followed him to the door into his back garden. Harry felt strangely
unreal, and even more so when he saw Buckbeak a few yards away, tethered
to a tree behind Hagrid's Pumpkin patch. Buckbeak seemed to know
something was happening. He turned his sharp head from side to side and
pawed the ground nervously.

"It's okay, Beaky," said Hagrid softly. "It's okay..." He turned to
Harry, Ron, and Hermione. "Go on," he said. "Get goin'."

But they didn't move.

"Hagrid, we can't --"

"We'll tell them what really happened --"

"They can't kill him --"

"Go!" said Hagrid fiercely. "It's bad enough without you lot in trouble
an' all!"

They had no choice. As Hermione threw the cloak over Harry and Ron, they
heard voices at the front of the cabin. Hagrid looked at the place where
they had just vanished from sight.

"Go quick," he said hoarsely. "Don' listen...."

And he strode back into his cabin as someone knocked at the front door.

Slowly, in a kind of horrified trance, Harry, Ron, and Hermione set off
silently around Hagrid's house. As they reached the other side, the
front door closed with a sharp snap.

"Please, let's hurry," Hermione whispered. "I can't stand it, I can't
bear it...."

They started up the sloping lawn toward the castle. The sun was sinking
fast now; the sky had turned to a clear, purple-tinged grey, but to the
west there was a ruby-red glow.

Ron stopped dead.

"Oh, please, Ron," Hermione began.

"It's Scabbers -- he won't -- stay put --"

Ron was bent over, trying to keep Scabbers in his pocket, but the rat
was going berserk; squeaking madly, twisting and flailing, trying to
sink his teeth into Ron's hand.

"Scabbers, it's me, you idiot, it's Ron," Ron hissed.

They heard a door open behind them and men's voices.

"Oh, Ron, please let's move, they're going to do it!" Hermione breathed.

"Okay -- Scabbers, stay put --"

They walked forward; Harry, like Hermione, was trying not to listen to
the rumble of voices behind them. Ron stopped again.

"I can't hold him -- Scabbers, shut up, everyone'll hear us --"

The rat was squealing wildly, but not loudly enough to cover up the
sounds drifting from Hagrid's garden. There was a jumble of indistinct
male voices, a silence, and then, without warning, the unmistakable
swish and thud of an axe.

Hermione swayed on the spot.

"They did it!" she whispered to Harry. "I d -- don't believe it -- they
did it!"



Harry's mind had gone blank with shock. The three of them stood
transfixed with horror under the Invisibility Cloak. The very last rays
of the setting sun were casting a bloody light over the long- shadowed
grounds. Then, behind them, they heard a wild howling.

"Hagrid," Harry muttered. Without thinking about what he was doing, he
made to turn back, but both Ron and Hermione seized his arms.

"We can't," said Ron, who was paper-white. "He'll be in worse trouble if
they know we've been to see him...."

Hermione's breathing was shallow and uneven.

"How -- could -- they?" she choked. "How could they?"

"Come on," said Ron, whose teeth seemed to be chattering.

They set off back toward the castle, walking slowly to keep themselves
hidden under the cloak. The light was fading fast now.

By the time they reached open ground, darkness was settling like a spell
around them.

"Scabbers, keep still," Ron hissed, clamping his hand over his chest.
The rat was wriggling madly. Ron came to a sudden halt, trying to force
Scabbers deeper into his pocket. "What's the matter with you, You stupid
rat? Stay still -- OUCH! He bit me!"

"Ron, be quiet!" Hermione whispered urgently. "Fudge'll be out here in a
minute --"

"He won't -- stay -- put --"

Scabbers was plainly terrified. He was writhing with all his might,
trying to break free of Ron's grip.

"What's the matter with him?"

But Harry had just seen -- stinking toward them, his body low to the
ground, wide yellow eyes glinting eerily in the darkness -- Crookshanks.
Whether he could see them or was following the sound of Scabbers's
squeaks, Harry couldn't tell.

"Crookshanks!" Hermione moaned. "No, go away, Crookshanks! Go away!"

But the cat was getting nearer --

"Scabbers -- NO!"

Too late -- the rat had slipped between Ron's clutching fingers, hit the
ground, and scampered away. In one bound, Crookshanks sprang after him,
and before Harry or Hermione could stop him, Ron had thrown the
Invisibility Cloak off himself and pelted away into the darkness.

"Ron!" Hermione moaned.

She and Harry looked at each other, then followed at a sprint; it ""as
impossible to run full out under the cloak; they pulled it off and it
streamed behind them like a banner as they hurtled after Ron; they could
hear his feet thundering along ahead and his shouts at Crookshanks.

"Get away from him -- get away -- Scabbers, come here --"

There was a loud thud.

"Gotcha! Get off, you stinking cat --"

Harry and Hermione almost fell over Ron; they skidded to a stop right in
front of him. He was sprawled on the ground, but Scabbers was back in
his pocket; he had both hands held tight over the quivering lump.

"Ron -- come on back under the cloak --" Hermione panted. "Dumbledore
the Minister -- they'll be coming back out in a minute --"

But before they could cover themselves again, before they could even
catch their breath, they heard the soft pounding of gigantic paws....
Something was bounding toward them, quiet as a shadow -- an enormous,
pale-eyed, jet-black dog.

Harry reached for his wand, but too late -- the dog had made an enormous
leap and the front paws hit him on the chest; he keeled over backward in
a whirl of hair; he felt its hot breath, saw inch- long teeth -

But the force of its leap had carried it too far; it rolled off him.
Dazed, feeling as though his ribs were broken, Harry tried to stand up;
he could hear it growling as it skidded around for a new attack.

Ron was on his feet. As the dog sprang back toward them he pushed Harry
aside; the dog's jaws fastened instead around Ron's outstretched arm.
Harry lunged forward, he seized a handful of the brute's hair, but it
was dragging Ron away as easily as though he were a rag doll --

Then, out of nowhere, something hit Harry so hard across the face he was
knocked off his feet again. He heard Hermione shriek with pain and fall
too.

Harry groped for his wand, blinking blood out of his eyes

"Lumos!"he whispered.

The wandlight showed him the trunk of a thick tree; they had chased
Scabbers into the shadow of the Whomping Willow and its branches were
creaking as though in a high wind, whipping backward and forward to stop
them going nearer.

And there, at the base of the trunk, was the dog, dragging Ron backward
into a large gap in the roots -- Ron was fighting furiously, but his
head and torso were slipping out of sight --

"Ron!" Harry shouted, trying to follow, but a heavy branch whipped
lethally through the air and he was forced backward again.

All they could see now was one of Ron's legs, which he had hooked around
a root in an effort to stop the dog from pulling him farther underground
-- but a horrible crack cut the air like a gunshot; Ron's leg had
broken, and a moment later, his foot vanished from sight.

"Harry -- we've got to go for help --" Hermione gasped; she was bleeding
too; the Willow had cut her across the shoulder.

"No! That thing's big enough to eat him; we haven't got time --"

"Harry -- we're never going to get through without help --"

Another branch whipped down at them, twigs clenched like knuckles.

"If that dog can get in, we can," Harry panted, darting here and there,
trying to find a way through the vicious, swishing branches, but he
couldn't get an inch nearer to the tree roots without being in range of
the tree's blows.

"Oh, help, help," Hermione whispered frantically, dancing U._ certainly
on the spot, "Please..."

Crookshanks darted forward. He slithered between the battering branches
like a snake and placed his front paws upon a knot on the trunk.

Abruptly, as though the tree had been turned to marble, it stopped
moving. Not a leaf twitched or shook.

"Crookshanks!" Hermione whispered uncertainly. She now grasped Harry's
arm painfully hard. "How did he know --?"

"He's friends with that dog," said Harry grimly. "I've seen them
together. Come on -- and keep your wand out --"

They covered the distance to the trunk in seconds, but before they had
reached the gap in the roots, Crookshanks had slid into it with a flick
of his bottlebrush tail. Harry went next; he crawled forward, headfirst,
and slid down an earthy slope to the bottom of a very low tunnel.
Crookshanks was a little way along, his eyes flashing in the light from
Harry's wand. Seconds later, Hermione slithered down beside him.

"Where's Ron?" she whispered in a terrified voice.

"This way," said Harry, setting off, bent-backed, after Crookshanks.

"Where does this tunnel come out?" Hermione asked breathlessly from
behind him.

"I don't know... It's marked on the Marauder's Map but Fred and George
said no one's ever gotten into it.... It goes off the edge of the map,
but it looked like it was heading for Hogsmeade..."

They moved as fast as they could, bent almost double; ahead of them,
Crookshanks's tail bobbed in and out of view. On and on went the
passage; it felt at least as long as the one to Honeydukes.... All Harry
could think of was Ron and what the enormous dog might be doing to
him.... He was drawing breath in sharp, painful gasps, running at a
crouch....

And then the tunnel began to rise; moments later it twisted, and
Crookshanks had gone. instead, Harry could see a patch of dim light
through a small opening.

He and Hermione paused, gasping for breath, edging forward. Both raised
their wands to see what lay beyond.

It was a room, a very disordered, dusty room. Paper was peeling from the
walls; there were stains all over the floor; every piece of furniture
was broken as though somebody had smashed it. The windows were all
boarded up.

Harry glanced at Hermione, who looked very frightened but nodded.

Harry pulled himself out of the hole, staring around. The room was
deserted, but a door to their right stood open, leading to a shadowy
hallway. Hermione suddenly grabbed Harry's arm again. Her wide eyes were
traveling around the boarded windows.

"Harry," she whispered, "I think we're in the Shrieking Shack."

Harry looked around. His eyes fell on a wooden chair near them. Large
chunks had been torn out of it; one of the legs had been ripped off
entirely.

"Ghosts didn't do that," he said slowly.

At that moment, there was a creak overhead. Something had Moved
upstairs. Both of them looked up at the ceiling. Hermione's grip on
Harry's arm was so tight he was losing feeling in-his fingers. He raised
his eyebrows at her; she nodded again and let go.

Quietly as they could, they crept out into the hall and UP the crumbling
staircase. Everything was covered in a thick layer of dust except the
floor, where a wide shiny stripe had been made by something being
dragged upstairs.

They reached the dark landing.

"Nox," they whispered together, and the lights at the end of their wands
went out. Only one door was open. As they crept toward it, they heard
movement from behind it; a low moan, and then a deep, loud purring. They
exchanged a last look, a last nod.

Wand held tightly before him, Harry kicked the door wide open.

On a magnificent four-poster bed with dusty hangings lay Crookshanks,
purring loudly at the sight of them. On the floor beside him, clutching
his leg, which stuck out at a strange angle, was Ron.

Harry and Hermione dashed across to him.

"Ron -- are you okay?"

"Where's the dog?"

"Not a dog," Ron moaned. His teeth were gritted with pain. "Harry, it's
a trap --"

"What --"

"He's the dog... he's an Animagus."

Ron was staring over Harry's shoulder. Harry wheeled around. With a
snap, the man in the shadows closed the door behind them.

A mass of filthy, matted hair hung to his elbows. If eyes hadn't been
shining out of the deep, dark sockets, he might have been a corpse. The
waxy skin was stretched so tightly over the bones of his face, it looked
like a skull. His yellow teeth were bared in a grin. It was Sirius
Black.

"Expelliarmus!"he croaked, pointing Ron's wand at them.

Harry's and Hermione's wands shot out of their hands, high in the air,
and Black caught them. Then he took a step closer. His eyes were fixed
on Harry.

"I thought you'd come and help your friend," he said hoarsely.

His voice sounded as though he had long since lost the habit of using
it. "Your father would have done the same for me. Brave of you) not to
run for a teacher. I'm grateful... it will make everything much
easier...."

The taunt about his father rang in Harry's ears as though Black had
bellowed it. A boiling hate erupted in Harry's chest, leaving no place
for fear. For the first time in his life, he wanted his wand back in his
hand, not to defend himself, but to attack... to kill. Without knowing
what he was doing, he started forward, but there was a sudden movement
on either side of him and two pairs of hands grabbed him and held him
back.... "No, Harry!" Hermione gasped in a petrified whisper; Ron,
however, spoke to Black.

"If you want to kill Harry, you'll have to kill us too!" he said
fiercely, though the effort of standing upright was draining him of
still more color, and he swayed slightly as he spoke.

Something flickered in Black's shadowed eyes.

"Lie down," he said quietly to Ron. "You will damage that leg even
more."

"Did you hear me?" Ron said weakly, though he was clinging painfully to
Harry to stay upright. "You'll have to kill all three of us!"

"There'll be only one murder here tonight," said Brack, and his grin
widened.

"Why's that?" Harry spat, trying to wrench himself free of Ron, and
Hermione. "Didn't care last time, did you? Didn't mind slaughtering all
those Muggles to get at Pettigrew... What's the matter, gone soft in
Azkaban?"

"Harry!" Hermione whimpered. "Be quiet!"

"HE KILLED MY MUM AND DAD!" Harry roared, and with a huge effort he
broke free of Hermione's and Ron's restraint and lunged forward -

He had forgotten about magic -- he had forgotten that he was short and
skinny and thirteen, whereas Black was a tall, full-grown man -- all
Harry knew was that he wanted to hurt Black as badly as he could and
that he didn't care how much he got hurt in return --

Perhaps it was the shock of Harry doing something so stupid, but Black
didn't raise the wands in time -- one of Harry's hands fastened over his
wasted wrist, forcing the wand tips away; the knuckles of Harry's other
hand collided with the side of Black's head and they fell, backward,
into the wall -

Hermione was screaming; Ron was yelling; there was a blinding flash as
the wands in Black's hand sent a jet of sparks into the air that missed
Harry's face by inches; Harry felt the shrunken arm under his fingers
twisting madly, but he clung on, his other hand punching every part of
Black it could find.

But Black's free hand had found Harry's throat

"No," he hissed, "I've waited too long --"

The fingers tightened, Harry choked, his glasses askew.

Then he saw Hermione's foot swing out of nowhere. Black let go of Harry
with a grunt of pain; Ron had thrown himself on Black's wand hand and
Harry heard a faint clatter --

He fought free of the tangle of bodies and saw his own wand rolling
across the floor; he threw himself toward it but

"Argh!"

Crookshanks had joined the fray; both sets of front claws had sunk
themselves deep into Harry's arm; Harry threw him off, but Crookshanks
now darted toward Harry's wand --

"NO YOU DON'T!" roared Harry, and he aimed a kick at Crookshanks that
made the cat leap aside, spitting; Harry snatched up his wand and turned
-

"Get out of the way!" he shouted at Ron and Hermione.

They didn't need telling twice. Hermione, gasping for breath, her lip
bleeding, scrambled aside, snatching up her and Ron's wands. Ron crawled
to the four-poster and collapsed onto it, panting, his white face now
tinged with green, both hands clutching his broken leg.

Black was sprawled at the bottom of the wall. His thin chest rose and
fell rapidly as he watched Harry walking slowly nearer, his wand
pointing straight at Black's heart.

"Going to kill me, Harry?" he whispered.

Harry stopped right above him, his wand still pointing at Black's chest,
looking down at him. A livid bruise was rising around Black's left eye
and his nose was bleeding.

"You killed my parents," said Harry, his voice shaking slightly, but his
wand hand quite steady.

Black stared up at him out of those sunken eyes.

"I don't deny it," he said very quietly. "But if you knew the whole
story."

"The whole story?" Harry repeated, a furious pounding in his ears. "You
sold them to Voldemort. That's all I need to know."

"You've got to listen to me," Black said, and there was a note of
urgency in his voice now. "You'll regret it if you don't.... You don't
understand...."

"I understand a lot better than you think," said Harry, and his voice
shook more than ever. "You never heard her, did you? My mum... trying to
stop Voldemort killing me... and you did that... you did it...."

Before either of them could say another word, something ginger streaked
past Harry; Crookshanks leapt onto Black's chest and settled himself
there, right over Black's heart. Black blinked and looked down at the
cat.

"Get off," he murmured, trying to push Crookshanks off him.

But Crookshanks sank his claws into Black's robes and wouldn't shift. He
turned his ugly, squashed face to Harry and looked up at him with those
great yellow eyes. To his right, Hermione gave a dry sob.

Harry stared down at Black and Crookshanks, his grip tightening on the
wand. So what if he had to kill the cat too? It was in league with
Black.... If it was prepared to die, trying to protect Black, that
wasn't Harry's business.... If Black wanted to save it, that only proved
he cared more for Crookshanks than for Harry's parents....

Harry raised the wand. Now was the moment to do it. Now was the moment
to avenge his mother and father. He was going to kill Black. He had to
kill Black. This was his chance....

The seconds lengthened. And still Harry stood frozen there, wand poised,
Black staring up at him, Crookshanks on his chest. Ron's ragged
breathing came from near the bed; Hermione was quite silent.

And then came a new sound -

Muffled footsteps were echoing up through the floor -- someone was
moving downstairs.

"WE'RE UP HERE!" Hermione screamed suddenly. "WE'RE UP HERE -- SIRIUS
BLACK - QUICK!"

Black made a startled movement that almost dislodged Crookshanks; Harry
gripped his wand convulsively -- Do it now! said a voice in his head --
but the footsteps were thundering up the stairs and Harry still hadn't
done it.

The door of the room burst open in a shower of red sparks and Harry
wheeled around as Professor Lupin came hurtling into the room, his face
bloodless, his wand raised and ready. His eyes flickered over Ron, lying
on the floor, over Hermione, cowering next to the door, to Harry,
standing there with his wand covering Black, and then to Black himself,
crumpled and bleeding at Harry's feet.

"Expelliarmus!" Lupin shouted.

Harry's wand flew once more out of his hand; so did the two Hermione was
holding. Lupin caught them all deftly, then moved into the room, staring
at Black, who still had Crookshanks lying Protectively across his chest.

Harry stood there, feeling suddenly empty. He hadn't done it. His nerve
had failed him. Black was going to be handed back to the dementors.

Then Lupin spoke, in a very tense voice.

"Where is he, Sirius?"

Harry looked quickly at Lupin. He didn't understannd what Lupin meant.
Who was Lupin talking about? He turned to look at Black again.

Black's face was quite expressionless. For a few seconds, he didn't move
at all. Then, very slowly, he raised his empty hand and pointed straight
at Ron. Mystified, Harry glanced around at Ron, who looked bewildered.

"But then..." Lupin muttered, staring at Black so intently it seemed he
was trying to read his mind, "... why hasn't he shown himself before
now? Unless" -- Lupin's eyes suddenly widened, as though he was seeing
something beyond Black, something none of the rest could see, "-- unless
he was the one... unless you switched... without telling me?"

Very slowly, his sunken gaze never leaving Lupin's face, Black nodded.

"Professor," Harry interrupted loudly, "what's going on --?"

But he never finished the question, because what he saw made his voice
die in his throat. Lupin was lowering his wand, gazing fixed at Black.
The Professor walked to Black's side, seized his hand, pulled him to his
feet so that Crookshanks fell to the floor, and embraced Black like a
brother.

Harry felt as though the bottom had dropped out of his stomach.

"DON'T BELIEVE IT!" Hermione screamed.

Lupin let go of Black and turned to her. She had raised herself off the
floor and was pointing at Lupin, wild-eyed. "You -- you --"

"Hermione --"

"-- you and him!"

"Hermione, calm down --"

"I didn't tell anyone!" Hermione shrieked. "I've been covering up for
you --"

"Hermione, listen to me, please'" Lupin shouted. "I can explain --"

Harry could feel himself shaking, not with fear, but with a fresh wave
of fury.

"I trusted you," he shouted at Lupin, his voice wavering, out of
control, "and all the time you've been his friend!"

"You're wrong," said Lupin. "I haven't been Sirius's friend, but I am
now -- Let me explain...."

"NO!" Hermione screamed. "Harry, don't trust him, he's been helping
Black get into the castle, he wants you dead too -- he's a werewolf!"

There was a ringing silence. Everyone's eyes were now on Lupin, who
looked remarkably calm, though rather pale.

"Not at all up to your usual standard, Hermione," he said. "Only one out
of three, I'm afraid. I have not been helping Sirius get into the castle
and I certainly don't want Harry dead. An odd shiver passed over his
face. "But I won't deny that I am a werewolf."

Ron made a valiant effort to get up again but fell back with a whimper
of pain. Lupin made toward him, looking concerned, but Ron gasped, "Get
away ftom me, werewolf!"

Lupin stopped dead. Then, with an obvious effort, he turned to Hermione
and said, "How long have you known?"

"Ages," Hermione whispered. "Since I did Professor Snape's essay..."

"He'll be delighted," said Lupin coolly. "He assigned that essay hoping
someone would realize what my symptoms meant.... Did you check the lunar
chart and realize that I was always ill at the full moon? Or did you
realize that the boggart changed into the moon when it saw me?"

"Both," Hermione said quietly.

Lupin forced a laugh.

"You're the cleverest witch of your age I've ever met, Hermione."

"I'm not," Hermione whispered. "If I'd been a bit cleverer, I'd have
told everyone what you are!"

"But they already know," said Lupin. "At least, the staff do."

"Dumbledore hired you when he knew you were a werewolf. Ron gasped. "Is
he mad?"

"Some of the staff thought so," said Lupin. "He had to work very hard to
convince certain teachers that I'm trustworthy --"

"AND HE WAS WRONG!" Harry yelled. "YOUVE BEEN HELPING HIM ALL THE TIME!"
He was pointing at Black, who suddenly crossed to the four-poster bed
and sank onto it, his face hidden in one shaking hand. Crookshanks leapt
up beside him and stepped onto his lap, purring. Ron edged away from
both of them, dragging his leg.

I have not been helping Sirius," said Lupin. "If you'll give me a
chance, I'll explain. Look --"

He separated Harry's, Ron's and Hermione's wands and threw each back to
its owner; Harry caught his, stunned.

There, said Lupin, sticking his own wand back into his belt "You're
armed, we're not. Now will you listen?"

Harry didn't know what to think. Was it a trick?

"If you haven't been helping him," he said, with a furious glance at
Black, "how did you know he was here?"

"The map," said Lupin. "The Marauder's Map. I was in my office examining
it --"

"You know how to work it?" Harry said suspiciously.

"Of course I know how to work it," said Lupin, waving his hand
impatiently. "I helped write it. I'm Moony -- that was my friends'
nickname for me at school."

"You wrote --?"

"The important thing is, I was watching it carefully this evening,
because I had an idea that you, Ron, and Hermione might try and sneak
out of the castle to visit Hagrid before his hippogriff was executed.
And I was right, wasn't I"

He had started to pace up and down, looking at them. Little patches of
dust rose at his feet.

"You might have been wearing your father's old cloak, Harry--"

"How d'you know about the cloak?"

"The number of times I saw James disappearing under it...," said Lupin,
waving an impatient hand again. "The point is, even if you're wearing an
Invisibility Cloak, you still show up on the Marauder's Map. I watched
you cross the grounds and enter Hagrid's hut. Twenty minutes later, you
left Hagrid, and set off back toward the castle. But you were now
accompanied by somebody else."

"What?" said Harry. "No, we weren't!"

I couldn't believe my eyes," said Lupin, still pacing, and ignoring
Harry's interruption. "I thought the map must be malfunctioning. How
could he be with you?" "No one was with us!" said Harry.

"And then I saw another dot, moving fast toward you, labeled Sirius
Black.... I saw him collide with you; I watched as he pulled two of you
into the Whomping Willow --"

"One of us!" Ron said angrily.

"No, Ron," said Lupin. "Two of you."

He had stopped his pacing, his eyes moving over Ron.

"Do you think I could have a look at the rat?" he said evenly.

"What?" said Ron. "What's Scabbers got to do with it?"

"Everything," said Lupin. "Could I see him, please?"

Ron hesitated, then put a hand inside his robes. Scabbers emerged,
thrashing desperately; Ron had to seize his long bald tail to stop him
escaping. Crookshanks stood up on Black's leg and made a soft hissing
noise.

Lupin moved closer to Ron. He seemed to be holding his breath as he
gazed intently at Scabbers.

"What?" Ron said again, holding Scabbers close to him, looking scared.
"What's my rat got to do with anything?"

"That's not a rat," croaked Sirius Black suddenly.

"What d'you mean -- of course he's a rat --"

"No, he's not," said Lupin quietly. "He's a wizard."

"An Animagus," said Black, "by the name of Peter Pettigrew."


It took a few seconds for the absurdity of this statement to sink in.
Then Ron voiced what Harry was thinking.

"You're both mental."

"Ridiculous!" said Hermione faintly.

"Peter Pettigrew's dead!" said Harry. "He killed him twelve years ago!"
He pointed at Black, whose face twitched convulsively.

"I meant to," he growled, his yellow teeth bared, "but little Peter got
the better of me... not this time, though!"

And Crookshanks was thrown to the floor as Black lunged at Scabbers; Ron
yelled with pain as Black's weight fell on his broken leg.

."Sirius, NO!" Lupin yelled, launching himself forwards and dragging
Black away from Ron again, "WAIT! You can't do it just like that -- they
need to understand -- we've got to explain --"

"We can explain afterwards!" snarled Black, trying to throw Lupin off.
One hand was still clawing the air as it tried to reach Scabbers, who
was squealing like a piglet, scratching Ron's face and neck as he tried
to escape.

"They've -- got -- a -- right -- to -- know -- -everything!" Lupin
panted, still trying to restrain Black. "Ron's kept him as a pet! There
are parts of it even I don't understand, and Harry -- you owe Harry the
truth, Sirius!"

Black stopped struggling, though his hollowed eyes were still fixed on
Scabbers, who was clamped tightly under Ron's bitten, scratched, ad
bleeding hands.

"All right, then," Black said, without taking his eyes off the rat.

"Tell them whatever you like. But make it quick, Remus. I want to commit
the murder I was imprisoned for..."

"You're nutters, both of you," said Ron shakily, looking round at Harry
and Hermione for support. "I've had enough of this. I'm off."

He tried to heave himself up on his good leg, but Lupin raised his wand
again, pointing it at Scabbers.

"You're going to hear me out, Ron," he said quietly. "Just keep a tight
hold on Peter while you listen."

"HE'S NOT PETER, HE'S SCABBERS!" Ron yelled, trying to fore the rat back
into his front pocket, but Scabbers was fighting to hard; Ron swayed and
overbalanced, and Harry caught him am pushed him back down to the bed.
Then, ignoring Black, Harry turned to Lupin.

There were witnesses who saw Pettigrew die," he said. "A whole street
full of them..."

"They didn't see what they thought they saw!" said Black savagely, still
watching Scabbers struggling in Ron's hands.

"Everyone thought Sirius killed Peter," said Lupin, nodding. "I believed
it myself -- until I saw the map tonight. Because the Marauder's map
never lies... Peter's alive. Ron's holding him, Harry."

Harry looked down at Ron, and as their eyes met, they agreed, silently:
Black and Lupin were both out of their minds. Their story made no sense
whatsoever. How could Scabbers be Peter Pettigrew? Azkaban must have
unhinged Black after all -- but why was Lupin playing along with him?

Then Hermione spoke, in a trembling, would-be calm sort of voice, as
though trying to will Professor Lupin to talk sensibly.

"But Professor Lupin... Scabbers can't be Pettigrew... it just can't be
true, you know it can't..."

"Why can't it be true?" Lupin said calmly, as though they were in class,
and Hermione had simply spotted a problem in an experiment with
grindylows.

"Because... because people would know if Peter Pettigrew had been an
Animagus. We did Animagi in class with Professor McGonagall. And I
looked them up when I did my homework -- the Ministry of Magic keeps
tabs on witches and wizards who can become animals; there's a register
showing what animal they become, and their markings and things... and I
went and looked Professor McGonagall up on the register, and there have
been only seven Animagi this century, and Pettigrew's name wasn't on the
list."

Harry had barely had time to marvel inwardly at the effort Hermione put
into her homework, when Lupin started to laugh.

"Light again, Hermione!" he said. "But the Ministry never knew that here
used to be three unregistered Animagi running around Hogwarts."

"I you're going to tell them the story, get a move on, Remus," said
Black, who was still watching Scabbers's every desperate move. "I've
waited twelve years, I'm not going to wait much longer."

"All right... but you'll need to help me, Sirius," said Lupin, I only
know how it began..."

Lupin broke off. There had been a loud creak behind him. The bedroom
door had opened of its own accord. All five of them stared at it. Then
Lupin strode toward it and looked out into the landing.

"No one there..."

"This place is haunted!" said Ron.

"It's not," said Lupin, still looking at the door in a puzzled way. "The
Shrieking Shack was never haunted.... The screams and howls the
villagers used to hear were made by me."

He pushed his graying hair out of his eyes, thought for a moment then
said, "That's where all of this starts -- with my becoming a werewolf,
None of this could have happened if I hadn't been bitter... and if I
hadn't been so foolhardy..."

He looked sober and tired. Ron started to interrupt, but Hermione, said,
"Shh!" She was watching Lupin very intently.

"I as a very small boy when I received the bite. My parents tried
everything, but in those days there was no cure. The potion that
Professor Snape has been making for me is a very recent discovery. It
makes me safe, you see. As long as I take it in the week, preceding the
full moon, I keep my mind when I transform.... I'm able to curl up in my
office, a harmless wolf, and wait for the moon to wane again.

"Before the Wolfsbane Potion was discovered, however, I became a fully
fledged monster once a month. It seemed impossible that I would be able
to come to Hogwarts. Other parents weren't likely to want their children
exposed to me.

"But then Dumbledore became Headmaster, and he was sympathetic. He said
that as long as we took certain precautions, there was no reason I
shouldn't come to school...." Lupin sighed, and looked directly at
Harry. "I told you, months ago, that the Whomping Willow was planted the
year I came to Hogwarts. The truth is that it was planted because I came
to Hogwarts. This house" -- Lupin looked miserably around the room, --
"the tunnel that leads to it -- they were built for my use. Once a
month, I was smuggled out of the castle, into this place, to transform.
The tree was placed at the tunnel mouth to stop anyone coming across me
while I was dangerous."

Harry couldn't see where this story was going, but he was listening
raptly all the same. The only sound apart from Lupin's voice was
Scabbers's frightened squeaking.

"My transformations in those days were -- were terrible. It is very
painful to turn into a werewolf. I was separated from humans to bite, so
I bit and scratched myself instead. The villagers heard the noise and
the screaming and thought they were hearing particularly violent
spirits. Dumbledore encouraged the rumor.... Even now, when the house
has been silent for years, the villagers don't dare approach it...."

"But apart from my transformations, I was happier than I had ever been
in my life. For the first time ever, I had friends, three great friends.
Sirius Black... Peter Pettigrew... and, of course, your father, Harry --
James Potter."

"Now, my three friends could hardly fail to notice that I disappeared
once a month. I made up all sorts of stories. I told them my mother was
ill, and that I had to go home to see her... I was terrified they would
desert me the moment they found out what I was. But of course, they,
like you, Hermione, worked out the truth...."

"And they didn't desert me at all. Instead, they did something for me
that would make my transformations not only bearable, but the best times
of my life. They became Animagi."

"My dad too?" said Harry, astounded.

"Yes, indeed," said Lupin. "It took them the best part of three years to
work out how to do it. Your father and Sirius here were the cleverest
students in the school, and lucky they were, because the Animagus
transformation can go horribly wrong -- one reason the Ministry keeps a
close watch on those attempting to do it. Peter needed all the help he
could get from James and Sirius. Finally, in our fifth year, they
managed it. They could each turn into a different animal at will."

"But how did that help you?" said Hermione, sounding puzzled.

"They couldn't keep me company as humans, so they kept me company as
animals," said Lupin. "A werewolf is only a danger to people. They
sneaked out of the castle every month under James's Invisibility Cloak.
They transformed... Peter, as the smallest, could slip beneath the
Willow's attacking branches and touch the knot that freezes it. They
would then slip down the tunnel and join me. Under their influence, I
became less dangerous. My body was still wolfish, but my mind seemed to
become less so while I was with them."

"Hurry up, Remus," snarled Black, who was still watching Scabbers with a
horrible sort of hunger on his face.

"I'm getting there, Sirius, I'm getting there... well, highly exciting
possibilities were open to us now that we could all transform. Soon we
were leaving the Shrieking Shack and roaming the school grounds and the
village by night. Sirius and James transformed into such large animals,
they were able to keep a werewolf in check. I doubt whether any Hogwarts
students ever found out more about the Hogwarts grounds and Hogsmeade
than we did.... And that's how we came to write the Marauder's Map, and
sign it with our nicknames. Sirius is Padfoot. Peter is Wormtail. James
was Prongs."

"What sort of animal --?" Harry began, but Hermione cut him off.

"That was still really dangerous! Running around in the dark with a
werewolf! What if you'd given the others the slip, and bitten somebody?"

"A thought that still haunts me," said Lupin heavily. "And there were
near misses, many of them. We laughed about them afterwards. We were
young, thoughtless -- carried away with our own cleverness."

I sometimes felt guilty about betraying Dumbledore's trust, of course...
he had admitted me to Hogwarts when no other headmaster would have done
so, and he had no idea I was breaking the rules he had set down for my
own and others' safety. He never knew I had led three fellow students
into becoming Animagi illegally. But I always managed to forget my
guilty feelings every time we sat down to plan our next month's
adventure. And I haven't changed..."

Lupin's face had hardened, and there was self-disgust in his voice. "All
this year, I have been battling with myself, wondering whether I should
tell Dumbledore that Sirius was an Animagus. But I didn't do it. Why?
Because I was too cowardly. It would have meant admitting that I'd
betrayed his trust while I was at school, admitting that I'd led others
along with me... and Dumbledore's trust has meant everything to me. He
let me into Hogwarts as a boy, and he gave me a job when I have been
shunned all my adult life, unable to find paid work because of what I
am. And so I convinced myself that Sirius was getting into the school
using dark arts he learned from Voldemort, that being an Animagus had
nothing to do with it... so, in a way, Snape's been right about me all
along."

"Snape?" said Black harshly, taking his eyes off Scabbers; for the first
time in minutes and looking up at Lupin. "What's Snape got to do with
it?"

"He's here, Sirius," said Lupin heavily. "He's teaching here as well."
He looked up at Harry, Ron, and Hermione.

"Professor Snape was at school with us. He fought very hard against my
appointment to the Defense Against the Dark Arts job. He has been
telling Dumbledore A year that I am not to be trusted. He has his
reasons... you see, Sirius here played a trick on him which nearly
killed him, a trick which involved me --"

Black made a derisive noise.

"It served him right," he sneered. "Sneaking around, trying to find out
what we were up to... hoping he could get us expelled...."

"Severus was very interested in where I went every month." Lupin told
Harry, Ron, and Hermione. "We were in the same year, you know, and we --
er -- didn't like each other very much. He especially disliked James.
Jealous, I think, of James's talent on the Quidditch field... anyway
Snape had seen me crossing the grounds with Madam Pomfrey one evening as
she led me toward the Whomping Willow to transform. Sirius thought it
would be -- er -- amusing, to tell Snape all he had to do was prod the
knot on the tree trunk with a long stick, and he'd be able to get in
after me. Well, of course, Snape tried it -- if he'd got as far as this
house, he'd have met a fully grown werewolf -- but your father, who'd
heard what Sirius had done, went after Snape and pulled him back, at
great risk to his life... Snape glimpsed me, though, at the end of the
tunnel. He was forbidden by Dumbledore to tell anybody, but from that
time on he knew what I was...."

"So that's why Snape doesn't like you," said Harry slowly, "because he
thought you were in on the joke?"

"That's right," sneered a cold voice from the wall behind Lupin.

Severus Snape was pulling off the Invisibility Cloak, his wand pointing,
directly at Lupin.
